The Joe Rogan experience. Santaia became, uh,
a scam after a while. Like I was raised in santaaria from the age of five.
I had little disturbances. When my dad died, I was weak. I didn't,
they didn't put me into santaaria to be a witch doctor, explain santaaria.
To people. Who't know what.
It's a religion that originated in African Nigeria.
And then the slaves brought it over to Cuba.
They hit it from the plantation owners through Catholicism.
So that's why there's a lot of cross. It's kind of a mixture.
Of African and.
Catholic Catholic religion. When I was five,
I was brought up to 140 eighth street and this lady had a C,
C a dog. And I loved the Collie. I loved dogs and I was allergic to them.
So when I was playing with the dog,
she would talk to me and I fell in love with this woman.
I fell in love with her. She was like my mother. And then as I got older,
one that they asked me, do you want this? Do you want that? Do you want, uh,
get wa which is the first one you UN, uh,
yo Romero.
Those are the first things you get and you put 'em by your door and they
guarantee, you know, your safety. For me,
it was health that big black woman is my godmother. Okay.
Uh, and then after that, when I was six,
they finally said they were gonna initiate me and <affirmative> mother, because
my spirit took my father. Wow. So they wanted my godmother.
They wanted me and my mother to be twins in the santaaria.
So I made Saint on 140 eighth street in Broadway. And,
but for me it wasn't to be a killer or to be anything like that. I can't carry,
I can't go in cars with strange people. I can't do business with three people.
I can't say I hope Jamie gets hit by a car.
I'm not allowed to say all those things.
I don't use it the way in the late seventies.
Why can't you do business with three people?
Because two of them were saddled up against you.
And that's the same thing that happened to me on my kidnapping. <laugh> I,
somebody with three people, I can't stay in anything. <laugh> look at my life.
Now, look at my life. When I was smart and white powder,
my Saint in my head is control.
Like that's why I always wear a white t-shirt on Mondays.
It's the day of the day. Why you.
Always wear a white t-shirt on Monday.
<Laugh> look at my shoes that white on white, always.
When I step outta the shower, I walk onto a white shower, shower, Matt,
every day, every day, every day, I I'm still very santaary in my head.
I wasn't, when I was doing the Coke,
because I knew I wasn't allowed to what happened in the,
in the mid seventies with santaaria was I would pay you to tell me what you
wanted to hear. Listen,
I gotta a big cargo coming in from Columbia with 200 kilos.
What would the saints say? I do it's religion.
They don't transport blow <laugh>.
But these people got enamored with it. <laugh> so it was like, you know,
uh, you know, I want to kill Joe Rogan. Let me put his spouse.
You're supposed to, yeah.
Write your name on a thing and then take a tongue and put the in the cow's
tongue. Like there was a big story when I was a kid for Dohi. One of, uh,
Doy's story that he's in the book, he's omega seven that I didn't know,
oldest growing up, he went to court one time and his godmother made a powder.
And before the judge went to make a verdict, sheplayed the power and the thing.
And the judge couldn't remember <laugh> what the he was about to say.
So I had dismissed the case <laugh> and she became a star after that every
criminal wanted to give a thousands of dollars. What was the powder?
Like a thing they made there's a movie they called years ago. It was, uh,
the devil's advocate with, uh, with, uh, Kaino, Reeves and Patino. Yeah.
And there's one scene where he has to go protect the guy.
The guy's a santaaria guy,
New York is prosecuting him because he's killing animals without a license.
And he goes, watch this. He takes a tongue out. He puts the tongue down.
He blast the tongue with like a thing. And then he says,
he asks the guy what's the judge's name?
And the judge gave him his name and he took the tongue and they roll it with
nails. And then they put it away and they go, don't worry about tomorrow.
The next day at court,
the judge starts to talk and he goes into a coughing spree.
You can't talk. Now that person looks like a hero.
These are all subtle coincidences that these
specs were fueled by now. So now I gotta, I want, I gotta have a big week,
Joe Rogan. What does the Saint say? And you get four pieces of coconut.
You throw 'em on the floor and the Saint say, this is gonna be your week.
Let me give you $20,000. So now drug dealers started doing it with Noriega.
Got busted. He had santaaria in his closet.
Fadedel was well known for santaaria in his closet. His allt dudes. Well,
they have a, you have a special, you have an, you have an altar.
I made a promise. When I lived in that apartment that have got, if about,
I got me a house here, a have his own room, go to my house.
<laugh> my Saint is in my office right behind me all. I have an altar.
I'm not Cuban. I have an alt. And I also have a, if you, if you.
Get into the Cuban thing, you, it will get you. It will get you.
It will get you at some. So you from reading, this book created an altar. I,
I have a.
I have an, you have, have to have an, you have to havewise my Isha, it Isha.
He a little boy. Why did you do this?
It's a belief system. And well, why did you do this?
Cause you can't really understand the culture unless you embrace it on some
level. You understand it and live it unless you live, continue it.
Even after the book.
Oh yeah.
I've had people talk to me when I've thrown cards about you throw cards about
me. When, when people have done, my reading mentioned you in my readings,
really? That you're around the, you baai's son all the way to the end.
What does that mean? Oh, batai on oldwise Saint.
He has 24 different passages.
He goes my passages or yaguna that's the one you don't want around.
<laugh> cause they were supposed to put Chago in my head, but Toty me down.
I was that Chogo son Chogo means thunder. Yeah.
Whenever you see thunder and that's Chogo drum Chogo is a bad and a woman.
You can't kill mice around him.
They behead of him because a mouse woke him up and he woke up and oh, it's.
Look, I get, and you.
You have no idea. Chananggo is the drum, the Congo drum, the drums,
which is the thunder, you know, summoning the thunder. Yeah. So.
They put a bottle line in my head to calm me down.
I'm not supposed to carry weapons. I can't have knives on me.
I can't get into arguments. My mother in this saying there's OUN.
She's just a. <affirmative> she's just a Aun is the horrorre of the saints.
She gave him her kids to, yeah, my raise.
If you have problems with your stomach or you want to have a kid,
you have to pray to all tune, you know?
But the women's saints are worse than the male saints.
You don't around with the women's saints cuz they will your world.
Tune is probably Mary.
Magdalene, right? Yes. And yeah, my, yeah. I sent a message to my mother.
My mother didn't do it. My mother died. Oh, you know?
So how the do I fit into santaaria <laugh>.
What, what do.
You, you throw a couple years ago, I rather read.
And some guy told me that you have a couple strong about a lot of people in your
life and that's that from you? You're an older, wiser guy.
You're not violent. You're very controlled.
You're a lot more controlled than I am, which is more of a,
I gleaned towards the Chogo phase. My, my father child,
my main thing is a Yaa. A Yaa was the young batah.
He's the one that took a sword and wiped it on his chest with red.
And they asked him why, uh, did he like to kill? And he said,
because blood makes change something stupid. He,
he has, but I don't practice that. I don't. My law is very calm,
but one, one guy goes sees her. He's a badass mother mentioned,
didn't mention your name. Didn't need, they don't need to mention names to me.
Once they tell me, I already know what they're talking about.
I already know what they're talking about. So I still go get readings.
Like when I go to Miami, next time I go to my godmother, see, this is.
The reason I a good thing on my head. I still follow it.
This is the reason I still follow.
You are asking me I why I would still follow it.
It's because once you get to an understanding of the idea that there are certain
spirits within you and the O the res represent different spirits.
Once you understand that that's not something you throw away.
Even if you don't follow the religion anymore, you stillbel,
you still have belief in that. You still believe in that.
So my ishia is eliua eliua is the Saint
he's a trickster. Eliua is a trickster, plays, little tricks.
And also the Saint of passages. So people put eliua above their door,
cuz you're passing from one room into another room.
And so you identify with that spirit and that becomes part of your.
Identity and you can't whistle in the house. Why? If you have LA,
why you can't whistle in the house? Yeah, I don't whistle.
You can't go in the house cuz he'll leave.
So you can't whistle in <laugh> you can't whistle.
No. Wow. Like when I was a kid, I'd sit at the table and do yeah,
you can't whistle <laugh> my mom would go touch that table. And again,
I'd wake your head. Cause God lives in the table. <laugh>
now Joe, I grew up in it. They made Saint in me like the,
when, when I made Saint was a in November and they did it up in the Bronx river.
So they had to break the ice and they were darkskinned Cubans.
And I'll never forget that they rip your clothes off and then they take whatever
your Saint is. They hit you with the number of water. So if your Saint is five,
you get hit with five things of water and they dry you up. You're freezing.
And when I saw them rip my mother's clothes, I was about five I'm like, you,
black. <laugh>. And I started running down Bronx Boulevard.
They had to chase me and bring me back. I didn't wanna do it.
It's an all night ceremony. It's all night on a Friday.
It's crazy all night on 12 hours long. Oh my God, you sleep.
And then Sunday is when they read your future to you.
And then for a week you just live in a corner, white, they paint your head.
You're bald. So I had to go back to school on Monday, balded with a hat.
They said he's not allowed in here with a hat.
My mother gave the principal a small nickel and I was allowed to wear the hat
from nine to three.
But then at three o'clock I had to go home and change into white clothes for a
year. Not allowed for a year. I had to dress in white now for a year,
a year <laugh> so for my cause I would just have to wear bills,
white socks and white t-shirt cuz I was a kid.
I can't keep wearing white every day. I'm I'm ripping. Right?
So now your hair has to grow back. So when I walk into, I don't,
there's a ton of Santa in LA. Really? I don't deal with it at all.
Cuz it's all the same thing. Like everything else in LA,
it's a bunch of white people who didn't grow up and,
and there's a hot black guy and they want to really just suck his Dick.
And he's telling about spirits. I saw a video today. I saw a video thing.
I'm like shame on them. It's all confus.
It's like those white chicks that sucked at him.
Do Dick when they go to hot yoga. Yeah know that guy. That's some bro Brum,
Brum is a pig.
<laugh> he got his bunch of white chicks with humish flavor in their mouth from
sucking that Bru Dick. Well, he, he gets to me inside.
You suck that, that Dick <laugh> that smells like hummus chips, you know?
And that's what it is in LA. Like I've been in my I to two parties.
First time I went, you know who was in there?
Who the dude from that played ed. I me.
How the played ed? I mean, uh forestret.
Forest whitakeigan forest. Billy santaaria is he big? Really?
The chick that one. Miss America for eating. From behind.
The lights. She's in the Santa zero. All.
Into santaaria.
Oh Vanessa, Vanessa. William. Yeah.
But it's not my santaaria. I grew up in a Cuban. Santaaria you shut your. Its.
A different santaaria because it's African, but it's not Cuban.
Is it Mexican influence?
No, no this is white and Flo. It's just white. It's going down. I love it.
Oh my God. Let's dance to it's water.
Down. Look at that. Look at forestret.
It's very watered down. Yeah. And look at the guy from Danny.
Danny, Danny glove. Forestret whitakeer dressed up like yeah, like monks.
That's crazy.
I don't do, I don't pop a plate. I came up hilarious.
I came up under the very strict shut Mount.
Nobody needs you to know your business.
Look at these two. They they're.
In a role. It was histe and this is what it is here.
It's more of a, of a, you know like whenever I,
the guy that I, the guy that gives me the reads is tremendous.
I'm gonna tell you this man to man. Tremendous,
really tremendous. I even took Duncan to him. Tremendous. You took.
Duncan to him. Oh yeah. I.
Took Duncan to him. Oh Jesus. Mm-hmm we had him on the podcast and everything.
The problem with him is I don't like his, the people around him. Yeah.
He has too many people that don't know when I join this,
I knew what I was getting myself into. Right. You know what I'm saying?
Like I knew, I knew I liked it. It had nothing to do with my mother.
It was to do with my godmother and it was my relationship with her. In fact,
my mother couldn't even say to me in front of my godmother. When,
when in 85? I I, my, when, when I moved in with the benders,
I couldn't bring my santaaria with them.
They D so I left it with this gay guy named Martin,
the man mariun <laugh> he sold Coke at night. And he was, uh,
he was uh, uh, a seamstres in the daytime for a big New York play.
But when I was a kid, he would go to cbsgs every night and sell Coke.
He was all these walking around today should give thanks to Martin.
Cause he was getting this Keith knocked out in black highs back in the seventies
cuz he was gay. But right. I liked Martin. I ended up my,
I left my saints Martin and then years later I ended up Robb Martin
in my cocaine hellle. So my godmother asked me in 90 and 85,
where's your saints. I go there in Martin's house. She goes, you know,
you're not supposed to have you were saying to the gay man's house.
I'll go get 'em listen to me. I never saw my godmother again. After 95, I did a,
I talked to Duncan about santaaria and some company approached me from London
and I did their santaaria podcast. And I got an email on Twitter.
We know who has you saints? They're in Miami, 34 years later,
I flew to Miami. I got my Sans. You flew to get 'em. I flew to get 'em.
I shipped him back. You know how my godmother got him to Miami out on a bus.
Whoa. So six cases on a bus with all your future and your stuff.
I got my notebook. And if you look at my notebook,
I'll bring my notebook next time. And you reading you'll go, Joe, <laugh> they?
I.